All right, so for
transfer learning, just a recap.
So, we're using a pre-trained model still,
but
we're adding some samples to
make it perform a new task.
So in terms of, for example,
using image detection models,
we're able to add custom images.
So for example, in the projects
that we built in the first project,
like the different tasks, we were
relying on the classes that the model
had been trained with so that it
recognized a person pretty well or a cat.
But, as I was telling you
before about my risotto story,
it did not recognize
the picture of the risotto.
But with transfer learning, we can use
the image recognition model as well, and
I can add all pictures of risotto
if I want with the label risotto.
And then it will be able
to recognize risotto or
anything else that you
want to predict as well.
So it's a pretty quick way to be able
to leverage the work that has already
been done and add your samples as well,
and you can do that in the browser.
So you can build experiments where
people can add their own images and
be able to have that kind
of functionality as well.
So I'll talk a little bit about the quick
start about how to do it quickly.
There's an easy way and
a more difficult way.
I'm gonna try to do both as
part of this second section.
But in the section about transfer
learning, I'm going to introduce
some terminology that I'm gonna
try to explain as best I could.
Also, it's gonna probably hopefully make
a bit more sense once we actually write
the code, that's part of the more
complicated ways of doing this.
So you might have heard of epochs or no.
So epochs is the number of iterations.
So it's when you're training
a machine learning model,
you don't only give the data once and
then it's done, you have predictions.
It's like depending on the a machine
learning model has different layers, or
at least a neural network
has different layers.
And you can pass a number of iteration
that you want the model to go through, and
it kind of like refines
its prediction over time.
So if I say the word epoch,
you should think about iterations, but
we'll see that when we
write some code later on.
You have the notion of an activation
function, and it's something added to
a neural network to help the network
learn complex patterns in the data.
So there's different types
of activation functions.
I don't know necessarily all of them, so
we'll see the one that
we use later on as well.
And in terms of batch size, it's the
number of training examples that are used.
So if you record 10 or 20 new images,
then your batch size could either be,
if you want to feed them
every step of the way,
then maybe your batch size would be 40 and
you use the same images.
But what you want is maybe split your data
set into different chunks and the batch
size would be the size of one chunk,
and you just pass them along as you go.
The learning rate is like
a hyper parameter, and
that's kind of a new
word I didn't introduce.
But hyper parameter is something that
you can tune when you use the model.
And there's not a set
way that if you use 0.1,
then it will always work or
something like that.
It's a hyperparameter tuning,
usually we call that,
where you start with a certain value and
then you see the output that you get.
And you kind of tune that and you see how
it affects the accuracy of your model.
So there's no real way to know in advance.
Maybe the best thing that you can
do is something that you'll tune.
And we can see that later in the examples,
we can try to maybe tweak and
see how it affects
the accuracy of our model.
But it's basically the learning rate
is how much the model change each time
that the weights are updated.
And if you remember what I
mentioned about the weights before,
it's how important certain attributes
are when you're using that data.
So the learning rate is, well, when the
weights are updated based on, I think that
parameter is more important than how many
times you should be updating your model.
So in terms of Tensor, so, well,
part of TensorFlow, TensorFlow.js,
it's a mathematical object that is
to describe physical properties.
So you could think about
it as a data type or
a data structure that is more specific
to working with machine learning.
And then an optimizer, we'll see
that again when we write code, but
it's a function that adjust different
attributes of the neural networks
such as the weights and
the learning rates.
So if right now these terms don't
really make sense, it's normal,
as long as you don't write some code,
they're kind of abstract.
But I wanted to mention them to
kind of give you an idea of maybe
certain terms that you might come across.
Maybe you've heard already when
working with transfer learning or
building your own model as well.
So we're starting with transfer learning,
so that then it's like a nice intro
towards building our custom model as that
will be the last part of the workshop.
But before we start writing some code,
I just wanted to show quickly a tool that
allows you to do transfer
learning pretty fast.
It's also made by Google
to work with TensorFlow.js.
But it's called Teachable Machine, and
it allows you to train in the browser and
you model on top of a pre-trained model.
So the one that we'll use is
going to be standard image model.
And this UI here allows you to
actually train more labels or
more classes on top of your model.
So you don't need to do that now.
What we'll do a little bit,
I'll just do a quick intro here.
But for example, if I do tilt right,
oops, tilt right.
I'm gonna enable the webcam.
And I'm gonna tilt right,
hold to record it.
It records a lot of data.
Oops, you can see my hand here.
Anyway, so I have 39 sample
images with the label tilt right,
and then I'll do tilt left.
And again, I do the same thing,
and I tilt left.
And you don't have to use exactly
the same number of images, and
then you can train it on the go.
Just, all you need to do is sit back and
not close your browser.
And it's basically retraining a new model
on top of the image recognition model
that's used in the background.
So you have a little progress bar and
then right away you get it tilt right,
tilt left, tilt right, till left.
And now we have a model that's
trained on our custom input.
So we're going to see how to
actually export that model and
then implement that in a project.
So that first part is going to be shorter
because all the training is done here.
But then there's a second part where we're
kind of going to build and interface,
basically that interface not as pretty.
But really instead of linking your
users to go to Teachable Machine and
export your model instead doing
all of that in your application.